https://www.usatoday.com/story/sports/olympics/2017/11/21/larry-nassar-usa-gymnastics-expected-plead-guilty-sexual-assault/886906001/
AP: Larry Nassar expected to plead guilty, faces at least 25 years in prison
Heather Tucker, Published P.M. Et Nov.
CLOSE Aly Raisman said she, too, was sexually abused by USA Gymnastics’ longtime team physician Larry Nassar. USA TODAY Sports

Former Michigan State University and USA Gymnastics doctor Larry Nassar, shown in June, will enter his first plea Wednesday. (Photo: Jeff Kowalsky, AFP/Getty Images)

Larry Nassar, the former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University team physician, will face at least 25 years in prison when he pleads guilty to multiple charges of sexual assault.

A person with knowledge of the agreement told The Associated Press terms of the deal, but was not authorized to speak publicly before Wednesday’s hearing.

He is facing charges that he molested seven girls at his home and at a clinic on the Spartans’ campus, all explained at the time as treatment.

The plea deal calls for a minimum sentence of 25 years. However, the judge has the flexibility to change the minimum to 40 years.

More: Aly Raisman, three-time Olympic gold medalist, says she was abused by USA Gymnastics doctor

More: Olympic gold medalist McKayla Maroney says she was victim of sexual abuse

More: Aly Raisman criticizes USA Gymnastics, USOC for response to sex abuse scandal

In a story last week, the Lansing Journal, part of the USA TODAY Network, reported Nassar was expected to plead guilty and had plea hearings set for Wednesday for Ingham County charges and Nov. 29 for Eaton County charges.

He faces 15 first-degree criminal sexual conduct charges in Ingham, seven in Eaton.

In September 2016, the Indianapolis Star, also part of the USA TODAY Network, first reported on sexual assault allegations against Nassar from two women. Since then, more than 120 women and girls have alleged sexual abuse.

Among those whom Nassar allegedly abused are three members of the Fierce Five – the U.S. women’s gymnastics team that won all-around gold at the 2012 London Olympics – McKayla Maroney, Aly Raisman and Gabby Douglas.

Nassar was USA Gymnastics’ team physician for nearly 20 years, from 1996 until the summer of 2015, when the organization fired him. However, the federation waited five weeks before alerting the FBI.

In a separate case, Nassar, 54, still awaits sentencing on child pornography charges, which he pled guilty to in July. That sentencing – which has a guideline of 22-27 years - is set for Dec. 7.

Contributing: The Associated Press, The Lansing Journal, The Indianapolis Star

Follow Heather Tucker on Twitter: @HeatherR_Tucker