http://www.cnn.com/2017/11/21/health/tobacco-ads-court-order-bn/index.html
Big Tobacco's court-ordered ads make their debut
Jacqueline Howard
(CNN) A wave of new tobacco ads is planned to be broadcast across prime-time television and published in newspapers this weekend, but they aren't promoting what you might expect.

They are "corrective statements" that a federal court judge ordered tobacco companies in the United States to release to inform the public about the dangers of smoking. The tobacco industry is expected to begin running these ads on Sunday.

In 1999, the Justice Department filed a lawsuit against the country's largest cigarette manufacturers and tobacco trade organizations, claiming civil fraud and racketeering violations over the course of more than 50 years

Then, in 2006, federal judge Gladys Kessler ruled that tobacco companies had violated civil racketeering laws and ordered them to put stronger language and warning labels in their marketing and to print ads detailing smoking's health effects.

Under court order, the ads are paid for by the tobacco companies Philip Morris USA, Lorillard, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. and Altria Group.

"There was a decade of litigation over exactly what they say and when they're going to run and what the font sizes are and all of that stuff," said Stanton Glantz, a professor of medicine and the Truth Initiative distinguished professor of tobacco control at the University of California, San Francisco, who was not involved in the lawsuit.

"But it is meant to, to some extent, reverse 50 years of lying to the public," he said.

The ads appear as black text on white backgrounds and detail the health effects of smoking, the addictiveness of cigarettes, and the dangers of secondhand smoke and low-tar cigarettes, among other health concerns.

Tobacco companies weigh in

"This industry has changed dramatically over the last 20 years, including becoming regulated by the FDA, which we supported," Murray Garnick, Altria's executive vice president and general counsel, said in the statement.

"We're focused on the future and, with FDA in place, working to develop less risky tobacco products," Garnick said. "We remain committed to aligning our business practices with society's expectations of a responsible company. This includes communicating openly about the health effects of our products, continuing to support cessation efforts, helping reduce underage tobacco use and developing potentially reduced-risk products."

In a statement to CNN, R.J. Reynolds said it "will fully meet its obligations under this order as part of its commitment to being a responsible company operating in a controversial industry."

"We are working to address and resolve many of the controversial issues relating to the use of tobacco. The tobacco industry today is very different than it was when this lawsuit was filed in 1999," the statement said.

'They will have to tell the truth, the whole truth'

The corrective ads mark a "landmark moment," said Cliff Douglas, the American Cancer Society's vice president for tobacco control and director of the society's Tobacco Control Center.

JUST WATCHED The evolution of anti-smoking campaigns Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The evolution of anti-smoking campaigns 01:32

The American Cancer Society -- along with the American Heart Association, the American Lung Association, the Tobacco-Free Kids Action Fund, the National African American Tobacco Prevention Network and Americans for Nonsmokers' Rights -- was involved in the case to ensure that public health interests were presented to the court.

"It brings a certain degree of closure to an era now extending to well over 50 years, during which the tobacco industry committed widespread fraud and engaged in conspiracy, as found by the court, to deceive the public and health experts and the government," said Douglas, who is also an attorney.

"Now, they will have to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth to the world," he said. "The court ruling was also forward-looking and focused on the fact that the industry's wrongdoing has continued with regard to the issues focused on by the corrective statements, which are designed in part to deter future wrongdoing."

Although many medical professionals and tobacco control advocates applaud the ads, some also warn that the "corrective statements" are far from closing this chapter in history.

"As pleased as we are that it has finally come to be and the corrective statements will be out there in newspapers and more also on television, the way young people watch and consume media has fundamentally changed," said Robin Koval, CEO and president of the Truth Initiative , a nonprofit tobacco control organization.

For instance, only about 5% of 18- to 29-year-old Americans often get news from reading print newspapers, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted last year.

Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century On January 11, 1964, U.S. Surgeon General Luther Terry issued a landmark report on the negative health risks caused by smoking tobacco. But you wouldn't know those risks by looking at some of these prominent advertisements of the 20th century. Here, actor and future U.S. President Ronald Reagan is seen in a 1950s ad for Chesterfield cigarettes. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century A billboard advertises Marlboro cigarettes. The rugged "Marlboro Man" was a staple of the brand's marketing. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century This French advertisement for Benson & Hedges cigarettes was published in 1970. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century A model is seen lying down in an advertisement for Opera Puffs Cigarettes. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century Sobranie Cocktail cigarettes were available in a variety of colors. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century Jazz legend Louis Armstrong appears in an advertisement for Camel cigarettes. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century Ground-breaking baseball player Jackie Robinson endorses Chesterfield cigarettes in this 1940s advertisement. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century Some early smoking advertisements, like this one for Craven "A" cigarettes, claimed their products wouldn't affect the throat. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century Baseball players Ted Williams, Stan Musial, Joe DiMaggio, Jackie Jensen, Bucky Harris and Ewell Blackwell advertise Chesterfield cigarettes in a magazine ad from around 1950. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century Kensitas cigarettes were marketed as a appetite suppressant in 1929. It suggested having a cigarette between meals instead of snacks. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century This Joe Camel billboard, advertising Camel cigarettes, was seen on West 34th Street in New York City. Philip Morris eventually dropped the cartoonish figure amid protests that it appealed to children. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century An ad for Tipalet cigarettes claims its smoke can make men more attractive to women. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century A giant bra was added to this Camel ad in San Francisco by Billboard Liberation Front members who objected to the use of male bodies in ads. At the bottom of the billboard is the surgeon general's warning, which were added to cigarette ads soon after Terry's report in 1964. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century This postcard, printed in Paris around 1950, promotes Wings cigarettes. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century This advertisement for Lucky Strike cigarettes says their "light smoke" offers throat protection. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century An advertisement for Bachelor cigarettes invites the audience to sample their "individual charm and delightful character." Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century An advertisement for Our Little Beauties cigarettes, near the turn of the 20th century. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Cigarette ads from the 20th century A 1940s holiday ad for Philip Morris cigarettes. Hide Caption 18 of 18

"They're all watching YouTube and social media and all the many, many other video channels that exist that, frankly, weren't even around when the judge originally ruled," Koval said. "So this won't be the best vehicle to reach the youngest people who, of course, Big Tobacco sees as their replacement smokers."

The "corrective statements" serve as the end of "a particular battle that went on for way too long," she said, but the tobacco industry continues to oppose tax increases, opposes using graphic images as warnings and opposes banning the sale of menthol cigarettes; flavored tobacco is thought to be more appealing to younger smokers

"I'd like to say this was the end of an era, but it's not," Koval said.

'The only thing you should be breathing is air'

About one in five US adults used some form of tobacco product in 2015, and cigarettes were the most commonly used product, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

Yet research continues to suggest that frequent smoking -- and secondhand smoke -- can have negative health impacts.

Cigarette smoking causes more than 480,000 deaths each year in the US, more than HIV, illegal drug use, alcohol use, motor vehicle injuries and firearm-related incidents combined, according to the CDC.

Since 1964, the CDC estimates, approximately 2.5 million nonsmokers have died from health problems caused by exposure to secondhand smoke.

JUST WATCHED How to quit smoking forever Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How to quit smoking forever 02:13

Dr. Eric Presser, a thoracic surgeon who is a member of First California Physician Partners and an associate professor at the University of California, Riverside School of Medicine, sees the tobacco companies' forthcoming corrective ads as a "step in the right direction in educating the public."

Presser was not involved in the case or the ads, but he said he sees the health impacts and addictiveness of smoking firsthand.

For the many patients whom he has treated for smoking-related cancers, Presser said, he tells them "it's not your fault" for having a cigarette addiction.

"One patient of mine who sticks out was a professional football player," said Presser, author of the book " An Empowering Guide to Lung Cancer ."

"He told me that he used to smoke while he was playing, which is unbelievable, because you take an athlete on the professional level as a football player and then you put smoke into his body, you wonder how good he could have been," Presser said before detailing how he removed cancer from the patient's lungs.

After the procedure, the patient stopped smoking, Presser said, but then his mother died, and he returned to smoking for a short while before quitting again.

"So imagine the addictive effect and the addictive nature of cigarettes to give someone cancer, you cut out the cancer and tell them you've given them a second chance at life, and they still go back to it even on occasion," Presser said. "That's how powerful this drug is."

Photos: E-cigarettes: Helping smokers quit or fueling a new addiction? Photos: E-cigarettes: Helping smokers quit or fueling a new addiction? "Cigalike" e-cigarettes look like a traditional tobacco cigarette, with a light at the end that glows when the user draws on it. The battery-powered device heats "e-liquid," containing nicotine, which is released in aerosol form. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: E-cigarettes: Helping smokers quit or fueling a new addiction? "Tank" e-cigarettes are heavily stylized and modifiable. They contain a larger cartridge of e-liquid and a battery pack that can be recharged, some by USB. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: E-cigarettes: Helping smokers quit or fueling a new addiction? "Electronic nicotine delivery systems" now take a variety of forms. E-hookahs have also been developed and have a strong cross-cultural market potential. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: E-cigarettes: Helping smokers quit or fueling a new addiction? A delegate at the "E-Cigarette Summit" smokes an e-cigar. In the e-liquid, nicotine is usually suspended in propylene glycol and glycerine. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: E-cigarettes: Helping smokers quit or fueling a new addiction? E-pipes work on the same principle. When someone draws on the device, it detects the air flow and heats the e-liquid in the cartridge to form a vapor. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: E-cigarettes: Helping smokers quit or fueling a new addiction? Vaporizers have also been adapted for marijuana. They have been developed for the medical market and contain cannabidiol (CBD), a method of pain-relief for glaucoma and migraines, while omitting THC, which causes the "high." Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: E-cigarettes: Helping smokers quit or fueling a new addiction? Nicotine gum and patches predate ENDS as a way for people to attempt to give up cigarettes. Hide Caption 7 of 7

Smoking rates have been on the decline in the US, but some experts -- such as Presser and UCSF's Glantz -- point to the rise of e-cigarettes as representing a new era of public health concern.

"I think the situation with e-cigarettes is that the more we learn, the worse they look, and people started out very optimistic about them," Glantz said. "Now, it's looking like they probably cause as much heart disease and lung cancer lung disease as conventional cigarettes do."

Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.

Presser said patients often ask him about their use of e-cigarettes or "vaping."

"The biggest thing I tell my patients is, the only thing you should be breathing is air," Presser said. "Anything that goes in through your mouth, through your nose, through your lungs, that is smoke, is just not supposed to be there, and it is going to cause the same kind of inflammation and effects that a cigarette does."