https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/21/us/politics/harvard-affirmative-action-admissions.html
Document Fight Slows Inquiry of Affirmative Action at Harvard
Charlie Savage, Anemona Hartocollis
The dispute centers on Title VI of the Civil Rights Act, which bars racial discrimination by organizations that receive federal grants — like Harvard — and the culture-war fight over whether efforts to ensure diversity by giving an edge to members of generally disadvantaged groups, like black and Latino students, amount to discrimination against white or Asian students with otherwise comparable or higher qualifications.

Anna Cowenhoven, a spokeswoman for Harvard, said the university was trying to meet its obligation to provide the federal government with access to records in a way that would also meet its obligation to protect the privacy of its applicants and students.

“As we have repeatedly made clear to the Department of Justice, the university will certainly comply with its obligations under Title VI,” she said. “In the process, we have an obligation to protect the confidentiality of student and applicant files and other highly sensitive records, and we have been seeking to engage the Department of Justice in the best means of doing so.”

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Edward Blum, the president of Students for Fair Admissions, which he formed to recruit plaintiffs to challenge affirmative action policies and to connect them with donors who want to finance such litigation, said in a written statement on Tuesday that his group was “gratified” that the Justice Department was investigating Harvard’s admissions policies, saying its “racial balancing” efforts amounted to placing a quota on Asian admissions.

The Wall Street Journal first reported on Mr. Gore’s letter, along with another sent that same day by Matthew J. Donnelly, a Civil Rights Division lawyer working on the project. The New York Times separately obtained those letters, along with several sent by Mr. Waxman this fall.

The letters show that Justice Department officials are generally seeking the same records Harvard has already turned over to lawyers for Students for Fair Admissions, which signed a confidentiality agreement. Those records had personally identifying information blacked out, however, and the department wants to see them without redactions.

In response, Mr. Waxman has raised questions about the Civil Rights Division’s authority to pursue the investigation and proposed various limits on how government officials may gain access to the records, citing the privacy of applicants and concerns that the materials might become public. Mr. Donnelly in turn has accused Mr. Waxman of pursuing a “strategy of delay.”

The Justice Department is weighing whether to file a friend-of-the-court brief in the Students for Fair Admissions lawsuit or whether to file its own lawsuit. If so, it could file a parallel complaint, suggesting that Harvard’s policies amount to intentional discrimination, or it could file a more aggressive complaint, arguing that Harvard’s policies have a “disparate impact” on Asian applicants.

Only the government, not private litigants, can file disparate impact claims. Such a complaint could be easier to prove because it would not be necessary to show that Harvard had a discriminatory purpose, only that its policies had a discriminatory effect. But that would be an extraordinary move, in part because conservatives generally oppose the use of disparate impact standards in civil rights cases.