http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/local/politics/ct-met-rahm-emanuel-2018-budget-passes-20171121-story.html
Emanuel's 2018 budget approved; cost of phone fees and ride-share trips to rise
John Byrne, Bill Ruthhart
Mayor Rahm Emanuel’s 2018 budget was approved overwhelmingly by the Chicago City Council on Tuesday, setting the stage for tax and fee hikes next year on telephone service, ride-share trips and concert tickets at bigger venues in the city.

Aldermen approved the mayor’s spending plan by a 47-3 vote. For Emanuel, the final tally continues a string of convincing budget victories in the largely acquiescent council, reflecting the stranglehold the mayor’s office has on the process.

The all-time vote totals on Emanuel’s seven budgets is 318 in favor and 29 against. That’s an average budget vote of 45 in favor and four against.

Winning approval this time was a relatively easy lift for the mayor because aldermen in prior budgets already approved many of the tax and fee increases that residents will see next year. The average Chicago family will be paying $1,813 more in taxes and fees in 2018 than they did before Emanuel took office in 2011. Just an average of $174 more in taxes will come via the package the council approved Tuesday.

Though this is his seventh year crafting a budget, Emanuel continues to hark back to the financial problems he inherited from predecessor Richard M. Daley while justifying the “tough choices” he has made in the years since.

“I do want us to take a step back and remember where we were in 2011, when a lot of people predicted, because of the financial conditions of the city, both its budget and its pensions, that were hanging over the city, a lot of people thought our best days were behind us,” Emanuel said after his budget was approved. As is his custom, the mayor did not name Daley in his remarks, nor did he point out that nearly half the aldermen now in the City Council were already there when he got elected in 2011.

In asking aldermen for their votes, Emanuel framed his 2018 budget as a “public safety plan.” It includes money to complete his pledge to hire nearly 1,000 additional police officers and more spending on youth programs. Those elements made it tough for council members to vote against the budget at a time when violent crime is at the top of many Chicagoans’ list of concerns.

“I want to thank the mayor for keeping his commitment on public safety,” said Northwest Side Ald. Ariel Reboyras, 30th, who chairs the City Council Public Safety Committee. “He said he was going to do it, and he’s doing it.”

The budget’s fate was hardly in doubt. Asked after the vote to name a change he made to his budget after he introduced it, Emanuel did not list a single, specific one, instead referring generally to “certain areas aldermen have asked for some areas of investment.”

“In every major area, it moves the city exactly on the priorities I set, but aldermen had a chance to voice that,” Emanuel said. “There have been changes along the way with individual aldermen as well as caucuses to reflect some of their interests, but on the big items, there has been across-the-board support.”

An Emanuel spokeswoman said $1 million was added to the budget for a legal services program for people in police custody, as was $100,000 for weed cutting. The council’s Finance Committee, chaired by longtime Ald. Ed Burke, on Monday chose not to consider a pair of amendments by Alds. Brendan Reilly and Scott Waguespack to block a total of $30 million in city money from being sent to Chicago Public Schools and the CTA.

Waguespack, 32nd, voted against the budget and said the city’s overall financial picture isn’t as rosy as the mayor says it is. “They’d like us to believe the city’s back on track, but the scenes in our neighborhoods and public school classrooms tell a different story,” he said.

In the end, the lack of a huge, broad tax hike like ones proposed in recent years made it easy for most members of the council to vote yes. Property taxes will keep going up, though, because of those prior votes.

“I think it’s great that we don’t have to burden our homeowners this year with property taxes,” said West Side Ald. Walter Burnett, 27th. “I think that’s a big deal.”

In addition to property tax and water and sewer fee increases from prior years, the budget approved Tuesday hikes 911 fees on phones by $1.10 per line per month, to $5. It also raises fees on rides via companies like Uber and Lyft by 15 cents to raise about $16 million that the mayor plans to send to the CTA to help finance borrowing to make repairs and upgrades.

And it raises amusement taxes on tickets for concerts, movies and comedy shows at venues with a capacity over 1,500 from 5 percent to 9 percent. Smaller venues would see the tax eliminated. Emanuel expects to bring in about $15.8 million from the change. All the new fees and taxes approved Tuesday as part of the $8.6 billion budget will take effect Jan. 1.

And the fourth and final increase from a $543 million property tax hike for police and fire pension funds approved in 2015 is $63 million for next year.

Water and sewer taxes that will go into the municipal worker pension fund will increase by 69 cents to $1.28 for every 1,000 gallons. That will cost the typical homeowner with a metered water line about $37 a year, according to city calculations.

jebyrne@chicagotribune.com

bruthhart@chicagotribune.com

Twitter @_johnbyrne

Twitter @billruthhart

RELATED

Typical homeowner will pay $174 more to City Hall, CPS in 2018 »