http://www.freep.com/story/sports/college/university-michigan/wolverines/2017/11/21/michigan-ohio-state-football-mike-mccray/886624001/
Ex-OSU captain Mike McCray: I'm 'thankful' for my son's time at Michigan
George Sipple, Published P.M. Et Nov.
CLOSE Michigan linebacker Mike McCray answers questions from the media on Monday, Nov. 20, 2017, in Ann Arbor. Video by George Sipple/DFP

Michigan's Mike McCray pursues Rutgers' Giovanni Rescigno in the first quarter Saturday, Oct. 28, 2017 at Michigan Stadium. (Photo: Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press)

A former Ohio State football captain said this week he’s “thankful” that his son played football for the Michigan Wolverines.

Mike McCray Sr. was a captain for the 1988 Ohio State Buckeyes and will be wearing maize and blue at noon on Saturday at Michigan Stadium when his son, U-M fifth-year senior linebacker Mike McCray, gets a final opportunity to beat OSU.

The Wolverines have lost five straight in “The Game” and 12 of the last 13 meetings.

“I don’t want to go back home and hear ‘Aw, you never beat Ohio State while you were up there,’ " McCray said. "It’d be a great thing for our team as well.”

McCray said this week already felt different than others for him as a captain.

“Kind of like a surreal moment that it’s my last game in the Big House and it is my last time being able to try to beat them,” he said. “I haven't beat them since I have been here. Everyone here hasn't beaten them."

If the Wolverines lose to the Buckeyes — they’re an 11 1/2-point underdog — McCray will end up hearing about it back home.

McCray Sr., an assistant principal at Trotwood-Madison High School in Trotwood, Ohio, has already heard from some of the students at his school.

“People know that I’m going to support my son,” McCray Sr. said. “The kids mess with me a little bit. I hear a little stuff. They all kind of respect Mike, so they don’t say too much. They understand the love I have for my son.”

McCray Sr. said Tuesday that when he joked with his wife, Glenda, that this was their last season rooting for the Wolverines, she told him she would remain a U-M supporter going forward.

“Me and my wife are really happy with my son’s experience at Michigan,” McCray Sr. said. “So we don’t have any regrets. My wife is all-in on blue.”

McCray Sr. and his wife planned to drive up to Ann Arbor to celebrate Thanksgiving with their son. He plans to return to Ohio on Friday because the Trotwood-Madison football will be playing in a state semifinal game. But he’ll make the trek back to Ann Arbor on Saturday for “The Game.”

“I’m thankful,” McCray Sr. said. “I think it was the right decision for him.”

More Michigan-Ohio State:

McCray Sr. said he sent his son a text last week telling him he was happy “seeing you become a man.” His son was asked Monday about Ohio State’s recruitment of him. He responded with a “no comment.”

Ex-Michigan offensive lineman David Dawson, a four-star recruit out of Detroit Cass Tech, said he became friends with McCray during the recruiting process when they were high school juniors.

Dawson said they still talk daily, even though Dawson eventually left U-M and plans to play next season at NCAA Division II Grand Valley State.

“I definitely think he has something to prove," Dawson said. "We used to talk a whole lot about Urban Meyer offering him after we all committed to Michigan. He probably has a chip on his shoulder about that.”

McCray persevered after dealing with shoulder injuries early in his college career. He blossomed under defensive coordinator Don Brown and credited Brown for believing in him before he had any reason to do so. McCray has 64 total tackles, 10 tackles for loss and five sacks in 11 games this season. He recently accepted an invitation to participate in the Senior Bowl in Mobile, Ala, in January.

“Everybody deals with adversity in life,” McCray Sr. said. “Nobody’s immune to that. When you deal with adversity it makes you strong. I was happy he stood up for himself.

"I’m very blessed to say my son did it pretty well, so far.”

Contact George Sipple: gsipple@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @georgesipple.