https://www.newyorker.com/culture/on-television/gobble-gobble-rating-trumps-performance-at-the-white-house-turkey-pardon
Gobble Gobble: Rating Trump’s Performance at the Turkey Pardon
no author identified
This morning, at 10:58 A.M. , on MSNBC, Hallie Jackson closed her daily hour at the anchor desk by teasing a trip into the field. She explained that she had witnessed the National Thanksgiving Turkey Presentation—“one of my very favorite White House traditions”—six times since arriving in Washington, and that she was heading to the Rose Garden for President Trump’s first such ceremony. Jackson provided a short history of this hallowed pseudo-event, describing how the turkey presentation became a ritualized pardon under George H. W. Bush—as opposed to a prelude to a Presidential dinner at home, à la Truman and Eisenhower. She introduced a photograph, taken a day earlier, of Wishbone and Drumstick, the turkeys due at this year’s ceremony. Shot by a White House photographer, the picture found each turkey, with its scarlet neck and violet head and flaccid snood, standing on its own bed in a room at the Willard. By the way, this is why, even when staying at a five-star hotel, I always turn back the duvet first thing.

Jackson engaged the hosts of the 11 A.M. MSNBC show, “Velshi & Ruhle.” The incoming anchors were eager to bandy the topic for a long moment, sportily, as if taking a deep breath of fresh air before plunging into a waste container of sex-crime headlines at the top of the hour. Ali Velshi wondered if putting the turkeys up at such a nice place was, from the birds’ perspective, a misguided effort at luxury: “They’ve never stayed in a hotel before.”

At 11:53 A.M. , on CNN, Kate Bolduan ran some footage from the White House briefing room, where Drumstick stood adjacent to a podium staffed by Sarah Huckabee Sanders. Wishbone was not on site, and there was no word on his whereabouts, which led me to baselessly speculate that he’d maybe got too deep into the minibar the night before, or else experienced a political awakening and sacrificed his body to provide club sandwiches for the resistance. But Wishbone, for his part, looked well here on CNN and also on C-SPAN, which captured a three-minute video clip of his briefing-room visit. You can hear him gobbling, intermittently, during his time by the podium, thereby providing some of the more cogent statements recently heard from that dais.

On CNN, shortly before the 1 P.M. ceremony, John King showed the scene coalescing in the Rose Garden, where Ivanka Trump, who wore a red coat, like Nancy Reagan at a fox hunt, greeted her half-sister Tiffany en route to settling in a slightly better seat. On the theme of Thanksgiving, King half-crassly contrived a segue to a sideshow of the moment, one concerning President Trump’s offense at a perceived lack of gratitude. There was recent tape of LaVar Ball, who is a talented loudmouth of an overbearing sports dad, dissing Trump, for reasons related to the President’s view of the world and thus impossible to explicate in brief. On split screen, in the studio, King and his panel made hay of all this while waiting for Trump to appear.

Meanwhile, Craig Melvin was now in the anchor chair on MSNBC, where he got my hopes up that some kind of scene would erupt to ruffle Drumstick’s feathers. Melvin pointed out that members of the White House press corps, though gathered for an occasion no more substantial than the marshmallows atop a sweet-potato casserole, were bursting with urgent questions.

According to C-SPAN’s clock, it was 1:05 P.M. when Trump appeared in the Rose Garden, in an unseasonable pink necktie, with Melania and Barron. He proceeded to deliver the necessary acknowledgements and niceties. Trump made a lighthearted reference to destroying Obama’s legacy; “I have been very active in overturning a number of executive actions by my predecessor,” he said, and then announced that he’d been advised by the White House counsel that he could not, as much as he might like to, rescind Obama’s pardon of last year’s turkeys, Tater and Tot. But even that was a wan effort. Some of us had been salivating for the first Trump turkey pardon as, I don’t know, some kind of comic relief or sordid spectacle. Perhaps it would go down as a colorful debacle, in which Drumstick contributed a pertinent metaphor by soiling the lawn.

We had no such luck. The problem here, as ever, was Trump’s thorough insincerity. At one point he said, “Before we get to the pardon, I would like to take a moment to extend our very heartfelt special message: Thanks. Thanks, folks—to the finest and bravest people in the entire world, our great men and women in uniform. . . . ” But—this is an inherent defect, symptomatic of much else—he cannot perform saying “thanks” as if he means it. For him, the phrase is just rosy punctuation amid patter. “Thank you very much,” Trump said to the assembled crowd when concluding his remarks, in the tone of someone politely dismissing a servant. “Thank you,” he repeated

With Wishbone still AWOL , Trump pardoned Drumstick, and returned to the building soon enough. Only one query disrupted the cultivated calm. Off camera, a reporter called out to ask whether Trump was planning to pardon any humans this season. The question flapped past unacknowledged, failing to ruffle the President’s feathers.