https://www.bostonglobe.com/metro/2017/11/21/justice-department-investigating-harvard-over-its-admission-policies/LJL8KmnOZHY3qO0PjCU8LP/story.html
Justice Department investigating Harvard over its admission policies
Globe Staff
The Department of Justice is investigating Harvard University over its admissions policies and blasting the university for stonewalling its efforts.

In a letter dated Nov. 17, the Justice Department threatened to sue Harvard over its “delays and challenges” in producing documents related to the federal agency’s investigation into civil rights violations.

According to the letter, the probe is related to a 2014 lawsuit that claims Harvard limits the number of Asian-Americans it admits each year. Justice Department officials have been meeting and corresponding with Harvard’s attorneys on this issue since early September.

Advertisement

“In the intervening two months, Harvard has pursued a strategy of delay and has not yet produced even a single document,” wrote Matthew J. Donnelly, an attorney in the department’s civil rights division.

Get Fast Forward in your inbox: Forget yesterday's news. Get what you need today in this early-morning email. Sign Up Thank you for signing up! Sign up for more newsletters here

The Justice Department’s Nov. 17 correspondence to Harvard was first reported in The Wall Street Journal Tuesday.

While the letter is unclear about exactly what documents the Justice Department has requested, it notes that Harvard has already produced some of the information in the 2014 lawsuit. A judge has ordered Harvard to submit admissions data by race, grade point average, SAT scores, legacy, and other criteria for the past six years.

Harvard will comply with its legal requirements, but it has “an obligation to protect the confidentiality of student and applicant files and other highly sensitive records, and we have been seeking to engage the Department of Justice in the best means of doing so,” the university said in a statement Tuesday.

Harvard’s attorneys in letters to the Justice Department have also questioned why the agency, led by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, is opening up a probe into a complaint about admissions that is more than 2½ years old and one that already involves a lawsuit in progress.

Advertisement

“The opening of an investigation in the current circumstances is, to our understanding, so outside ordinary circumstances that Harvard is obliged to clarify the authority and rationale for the Department’s decision,” Seth Waxman, an attorney with WilmerHale who is representing Harvard, wrote in an Oct. 6 letter.

Students for Fair Admissions, a nonprofit whose members include students and parents, filed the lawsuit. The suit said the university’s admissions practices violate federal civil rights law and asked a federal judge to bar Harvard from using race as an admissions factor in undergraduate admissions.

Edward Blum, with Students for Fair Admissions, said he is gratified that the Justice Department has launched an investigation into Harvard’s admissions practices.

“Harvard’s Asian quotas, and the overall racial balancing that follows, have been ignored by our federal agencies for too long,” Blum said in a statement. “This investigation is a welcome development.”

Earlier this year, the New York Times reported that the US Justice Department, under President Trump, was preparing to redirect resources from its civil rights division toward investigating and suing universities over affirmative action policies deemed to discriminate against white applicants.

Advertisement

In August, the Trump administration said it was looking into the complaint against Harvard, sparking worry in academia and among civil rights advocates.

This year, Harvard admitted 22.2 percent of students who identified as Asian, about the same as last year.

Blum has a similar case pending against the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. And he also pushed a case brought by Abigail Fisher, a student who said the University of Texas rejected her because she is white.

However, the Justice Department in the past has said it is only investigating one university on the matter.

Harvard has said previously that its admissions practices are consistent with legal precedents set by the Supreme Court.

Just last year, the US Supreme Court, in a 4-to-3 vote, ruled that college admissions officers could continue to use race as one of several factors in deciding who gets into a school. The decision surprised university officials and disappointed those who had hoped to end race-based admissions.

But the ruling does require universities, if they are challenged, to show they had no choice but to use race to create diversity on campus and that other factors alone, such as family income or an advantage to first-generation college students, couldn’t create a similar mix of students, according to Vinay Harpalani, a law professor at the Savannah Law School who specializes in affirmative action.

A more active Justice Department on this front could push schools to demonstrate that they are looking at other factors before race, Harpalani said.

“Universities typically don’t like to make details on their race-conscious policies public because the line between legal and illegal policies is not fully clear . . . and because there are always potential lawsuits out there, and also because this is such a politically charged issue,” Harpalani said earlier this year.

The Justice Department has given Harvard until Dec. 1 to comply with the document request or may file a lawsuit to enforce the university’s compliance, according to the letter.