https://www.gossipcop.com/the-weeknd-sent-bella-hadid-bouquet-flowers-before-victorias-secret-fashion-show-made-up/
Story About The Weeknd Sending Bella Hadid Flowers Before Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show Is Made Up
no author identified
Truth rating: 0

By Holly Nicol |

A new story claims The Weeknd sent Bella Hadid a “gorgeous bouquet of flowers with a sweet note” before the 2017 Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show in Shanghai, but it’s all made-up. Gossip Cop can expose this fabricated claim. We’re told it’s untrue.

The latest piece of fiction comes courtesy of HollywoodLife. According to the often disproven site, The Weeknd (real name Abel Tesfaye) is “trying his hardest to get back with Bella,” who is “reportedly cautious” about letting him “back into her life.” The outlet’s so-called “source,” who is supposedly close to the Victoria’s Secret model, is quoted as saying, “Abel sent her a gorgeous, huge bouquet of flowers along with a super sweet note telling her how amazing she is and how proud of her he is.”

Wait, the website claims to know The Weeknd sent Hadid flowers in China, as well as the content of the accompany note, but also writes that’s she’s “reportedly” cautious about reconciling with the singer? It stands to reason that if the repeatedly discredited outlet had an actual “source,” it would know how she feels one way or the other and not have to resort to words like “reportedly.” And isn’t it odd that more reputable publications and blogs didn’t report this, but magically only HollywoodLies, as it’s known, is the one place that knows about the flowers?

The truth is the site manufactured its article. It appears to not really have reliable sources for Hadid or The Weeknd. Some time ago, HollywoodLies wrongly claimed The Weeknd and Hadid were engaged.

And it’s hardly the first time the website has tried to peddle a tale about petals being sent from one star to another. For example, Gossip Cop busted the website in February when it falsely maintained Robert Pattinson sent Kristen Stewart a bouquet of flowers before her hosting gig at “SNL.” Much like that phony tale, this latest one is similarly fabricated.

While it’s true The Weeknd and Hadid have been spotted together since his split from Selena Gomez, a source close to the R&B singer tells Gossip Cop the article about him sending flowers to Hadid before she hit the Victoria’s Secret runway is untrue. “It’s just made-up,” an insider assures us.